# GISAID fake data
This fake data was generated by simulating an epidemic to mimic SARS-CoV-2 in a very basic way. First, a phylogeny of 201 tips was simulated under a birth-death-sampling process using R package TreeSim. 
```console
simtree<-TreeSim::sim.bdsky.stt(n=201, lambdasky = c(5,3.5), timesky = 0.1,deathsky = c(1,0.6),sampprobsky = c(0.5,0.8),timestop = 0,model = "BD")
```
Branch lengths were re-scaled to cover the same range of dates as the empirical data used in this analysis. A strict clock of 8e-4 subs/site/year was assumed to rescale the tree into subs/site. The phylogeny was then used as the input upon which sequences were simulated using R package phangorn starting with the commonly used reference sequence, Wuhan-hu-1 on 2019-12-26. A Jukes Cantor model with no rate heterogeneity was assumed for simplicity sake. Mutations were assumed to happen at random across the alignment. 
```console
phangorn::simSeq(tree.subssite,rootseq=rootseqwu, l=29903, type="DNA")
```

The fake metadata was generated by starting with the real GISAID metadata used in the empirical analysis, then clearing data from all cells except those relating to location. Then, 100 Canadian rows and 101 global rows were sampled (from the locations). 

GISAID accessions, strains, and tip labels were made up at random.

Simulated tree tiplabels were matched to the metadata by ordering both by date and assigning them to metadata rows in order of appearance in the tree. Collection dates were filled in with the simulated tip dates. Submission dates were specified as collection date plus between 1 to 100 days. A set percentage of tips/metadata had the collection date blinded to only yyyy-mm in order to demonstrate that part of the inference pipeline. 

This data does not represent a subsample of the GISAID data in any form and the resulting plots/analysis should not be interpreted as anything more than a reproducible example.
